### Guidelines on Dwelling Units (DU) in Non-Landed Residential Developments

<span style="color: #000000;">The following sections detail the formulae
to determine the maximum number of dwelling units (DUs) for a
development, as well as the required mix of DU sizes to cater to the
needs of different buyers (e.g. larger families). These requirements do
not apply to HDB flats and Serviced Apartments.</span>

As a guide, all self-contained DUs island-wide shall be at least 35sqm
nett<sup>1</sup> in internal area. 

<sup>1</sup> <span style="color: #000000;">Refers to nett living space
of a unit excluding voids, balconies, air-conditioner ledges and other
external areas</span>

### 

<a href="#Flats-Residential-Estates" class="collapsible collapsed"
data-toggle="collapse"></a>

For flats and condominiums outside the Central Area

<span style="color: #000000;">**<span style="text-decoration: underline;">Maximum
number of DUs</span>**</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">The formula for calculating the maximum
allowable number of DUs is intended to derive an upper bound figure. The
actual number of DUs that may be supported in any development shall be
assessed based on the site context, existing site conditions and the
impact on the local infrastructure. URA shall assess the overall layout,
design and unit sizes of the residential development proposals, and may
add other requirements where necessary to protect the quality of the
living environment. </span>

<span style="color: #000000;">The following formula applies to all flats
and condominiums and residential component of commercial and mixed-use
developments (e.g. Residential with Commercial at 1st storey or mixed
commercial and residential developments), except those in the Central
Area (see <a
href="https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Flats-Condominiums/Central_Area_Map_1.pdf"
target="_blank">Map 1</a> (PDF, 1.02 MB)) and [Maps
2-10 ](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Flats-Condominiums/Central_Area_Map_2.pdf)(PDF,
1.92 MB):</span>

 
<https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Flats-Condominiums/DU_Calculation_85sqm.png?h=100%25&w=100%25>

<span style="text-align: justify; color: #000000;">The following formula
applies to all flats and condominiums and residential component of
commercial and mixed-use developments within the estates in [Maps
2-10](https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Flats-Condominiums/Central_Area_Map_2.pdf) (PDF,
1.92 MB), d<span style="text-align: justify; color: #000000;">ue to the
potential strain on local infrastructure from the cumulative effect of
new developments in these areas.</span></span>

<span style="text-align: justify; color: #000000;"><https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Flats-Condominiums/DU_Calculation_100sqm.png?h=100%25&w=100%25></span>

<span style="text-align: justify; text-decoration: underline; color: #000000;">**Mix
of DUs**</span>

<span style="text-align: justify; color: #000000;">Each development
shall provide:</span>

-   <span style="text-align: justify; color: #000000;">A minimum of 20%
    of DUs with nett internal area<sup>4</sup> of at least 100
    sqm</span>
-   <span style="text-align: justify; color: #000000;">A maximum of 20%
    of DUs with nett internal area<sup>4</sup> of 50 sqm or less</span>

<sup>2</sup> Excludes bonus GFA (ie if the proposal is a mixed
development, only the proposed GFA for the residential component shall
be used in the calculation, excluding bonus GFA).

<sup>3</sup> The GFA of any proposed strata landed units shall be
excluded from the calculation in the formula.

<sup>4</sup> <span style="color: #000000;">Refers to nett living space
of a unit excluding voids, balconies, air-conditioner ledges and other
external areas</span>

<a href="#Flats-CA" class="collapsible collapsed"
data-toggle="collapse"></a>

For flats and condominiums within the Central Area

<span style="text-decoration: underline; color: #000000;">**Maximum
number of DUs**</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">There is no cap on the maximum number of
DUs within the Central Area (see <a
href="https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Flats-Condominiums/Central_Area_Map_1.pdf"
target="_blank">Map 1</a> (PDF, 1.02 MB)). This is because new
developments within the Central Area are less likely to put a strain on
local infrastructure, as the area is generally well-served by public
transport with residents less reliant on private vehicles.</span>

<span style="text-decoration: underline;">**Mix of DUs**</span>

<span style="color: #000000;">All flats and condominiums and residential
component of commercial and mixed-use developments shall provide a
minimum of 20% of DUs with nett internal area<sup>4</sup> of at least 70
sqm.</span>

<sup>4</sup> <span style="color: #000000;">Refers to nett living space
of a unit excluding voids, balconies, air-conditioner ledges and other
external areas</span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last updated on 25 January 2023*
