### Serviced Apartments II (SA2)

Serviced Apartments II (SA2), also known as long-stay Serviced
Apartments, is a pilot housing typology for occupants seeking long-term
rental accommodation. Being a pilot, flexibility is allowed in the
design of SA2 units as long as they achieve a global average unit size
of 35 sqm nett. SA2 units need not be self-contained with the full suite
of living/dining/kitchen amenities but should minimally be en-suite
(i.e. with attached bathroom).

SA2 shall be rented out for lodging purposes for a minimum period of 3
months or longer, and shall be developed and/or managed under one
ownership. Strata subdivision of SA2 is strictly not allowed.

Support services such as concierge, housekeeping and/or laundry provided
for the residents of SA2 may be allowed. In addition, limited bar/lounge
facilities may be permitted, subject to a maximum of 0.3% of the total
residential GFA.

SA2 may be allowed in Residential zone and may also be considered on
mixed-use sites where residential uses are allowed.

### 

<a href="#Within-Residential-SA2" class="collapsible collapsed"
data-toggle="collapse"></a>

SA within Residential zones (incl. mixed use sites with a residential
component)

Applicants may submit an Outline Application to URA to determine the
suitability of the location, the Gross Plot Ratio (GPR) control and the
storey height for a proposed SA2.

SA2 may be allowed where the site fronts a major or arterial road or
primary access road (ie Category 1, 2, 3, 4 roads or equivalent); or the
site is located in a mixed-use area (eg commercial centres, business
parks, or abutting medical hubs).

SA2 shall not be allowed within the designated Landed Housing Areas and
areas where SA2 may potentially cause dis-amenities to the neighbouring
residents. 

<a href="#Within-Mixed-Use-SA2" class="collapsible collapsed"
data-toggle="collapse"></a>

SA within mixed-use areas

SA2 may be considered in mixed-use areas. Except for the Upper Circular
Road streetblock, SA2 may be considered in the other locations where
Serviced Apartments (SA) with minimum 7-day stays, are not allowed
(examples of such areas can be found under the <a
href="https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel/Advisory-Notes"
style="color: #dc2837; background-color: #ffffff; margin: 0px; padding: 0px; border: 0px; text-align: justify;"
target="_blank">Hotels Handbook</a>).

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last updated on 4 December 2023*
