### Serviced Apartments

Serviced Apartments (SA) are self-contained apartments with
kitchenettes/kitchens, and typically provide support services such as
concierge, common dining areas, housekeeping and/or laundry for the
residents.

SA units shall meet a minimum unit size of 35 sqm (nett). For proposals
with design merits or specific concepts, URA would consider applying the
35 sqm minimum unit size based on the global average of self-contained
units (with kitchenette and toilet) and covered communal facilities
exclusively for SA tenants’ use<sup>1</sup>.

SA shall be rented out for lodging purposes for a minimum period of 7
days or longer, and shall be developed and/or managed under one
ownership. Strata subdivision of SA is strictly not allowed.

Support services such as concierge, housekeeping and/or laundry provided
for the residents of Serviced Apartments may be allowed. In addition,
limited bar/lounge facilities may be permitted, subject to a maximum of
0.3% of the total residential GFA.

<span style="color: black;">SA may be allowed in Residential zone and
may also be considered on mixed-use sites where residential uses are
allowed.</span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<span style="font-size: 16px;"><sup><span style="color: black;">1 </span></sup><span style="background-color: white; text-align: justify; color: black;">The
following areas would generally be excluded from being considered as
covered communal facilities exclusively for co-living tenants’
use:</span></span>

-   <span style="font-size: 16px; color: black;">Public areas or
    facilities not exclusive to co-living tenants (e.g. communal areas
    that double as public cafes, public co-working offices)</span>
-   <span style="font-size: 16px; color: black;">Functional and
    circulation spaces (e.g. concierge/check-in areas, back-of-house,
    corridors)</span>
-   <span style="font-size: 16px; color: black;">Open-to-sky areas (e.g.
    open roof terraces)</span>

### 

<a href="#Within-Residential" class="collapsible collapsed"
data-toggle="collapse"></a>

SA within Residential zones (incl. mixed use sites with a residential
component)

<span style="color: #333333;">Applicants may submit an Outline
Application to URA to determine the suitability of the location, the
Gross Plot Ratio (GPR) control and the storey height for a proposed
SA.</span>

<span style="color: #333333;">SA may be allowed where the site fronts a
major or arterial road (ie Category 1, 2, 3 roads or equivalent) at the
fringe of a residential area; or the site is located in a mixed-use area
(eg commercial centres, business parks, or abutting medical
hubs).</span>

<span style="color: #333333; line-height: 115%;">SA shall not be allowed
within the designated Landed Housing Areas; areas where SA may
potentially cause dis-amenities to the neighbouring residents; and areas
where there are already dis-amenities in the surroundings (examples of
such areas can be found under the </span><a
href="https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/Hotel"
target="_blank">Hotels Handbook</a>).

<a href="#Within-Mixed-Use" class="collapsible collapsed"
data-toggle="collapse"></a>

SA within mixed-use areas

SA may be considered in mixed-use areas and are not restricted by the
category of roads fronting the site. 

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last updated on 1 December 2023*
