### Mechanical and Electrical (M&E) Spaces

### 

<a href="#MechanicalandElectricalFloorwithLimitedHeadroom"
class="collapsible collapsed" data-toggle="collapse"></a>

Mechanical and Electrical Floor with Limited Headroom

M&E floors with headroom of up to 1.8m are excluded from GFA. The height
of the M&E floor is measured from the floor to the underside of the
upper floor. As suspended or false ceiling is not a floor per se, such
ceiling is not considered an upper floor.

For M&E floors with varying headroom (i.e. the height of the headroom
varies from below 1.8m to exceeding 1.8m), the entire floor is included
as GFA.

<https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/GFA/GFA-40-MnE-floors-with-limited-headroom-v2-01.jpg> 

*M&E Floor with Limited Headroom*

<a href="#MechanicalandElectricalRoomswithinBasementCarPark"
class="collapsible collapsed" data-toggle="collapse"></a>

Mechanical and Electrical Rooms within Basement Car Park

M&E rooms (including bin centres and substations) within fully sunken
common basement carparks are excluded from GFA.

<a
href="#MechanicalandElectricalFloorsforHotelandCommercialDevelopments"
class="collapsible collapsed" data-toggle="collapse"></a>

Mechanical and Electrical Floors for Hotel and Commercial Developments

Under the Landscaping for Urban Spaces and High-Rises (LUSH) scheme,
activity-generating and sustainability-related uses are encouraged on
the rooftop of either new commercial and hotel developments or
commercial and hotel developments undergoing major additions and
alterations / re-development.

Activity-generating uses include F&B and sustainability-related uses
include urban farms<sup>1</sup>, communal roof gardens, greenery and
solar panels.

Rooftop M&E services may be transferred from the roof to
**<span style="text-decoration: underline;">one of the top three
floors</span>** directly below the roof and
**<span style="text-decoration: underline;">only one such floor</span>**
may be excluded from GFA provided the use of the freed-up roof space
adhere to the following requirements:

-   The urban farm area, solar panels and communal roof gardens shall
    take up a meaningful part of the roof. Any M&E services such as lift
    motor rooms or staircase cores that need to remain on the rooftop
    shall be clustered and neatly integrated with the roof design.
    Applicants shall consider the site context in deciding the most
    appropriate use for the rooftop.  
      
-   URA will take into consideration whether the proposed use on the
    roof top would pose dis-amenity concerns to neighbouring
    developments (e.g. noise, glare). For example, F&B uses are not
    allowed on the rooftops of commercial and hotel developments that
    share common boundaries with residential developments.

Applicants are to take note of the following considerations:

-   F&B uses, whether covered or open-to-sky, are to be included as
    GFA.  
      
-   For crop protection, covers over rooftop urban farms may be allowed.
    Such covered areas are included as GFA;  
      
-   Covered spaces under solar panels used for landscaping purpose are
    excluded from GFA.  
      

Note: Proposals for activity-generating and sustainability-related uses
on the roof and the associated GFA exclusion for the M&E services
transfer shall be considered based on the merits of the proposal and
subject to URA’s evaluation at the development application stage.

<https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/GFA/GFA-41-MnE_rooftop-guidelines-v2-01.jpg?h=571&w=1000> 

*Transfer of M&E Floor for Hotel and Commercial Developments*

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<span style="font-size: 16px;"><sup>1</sup> Rooftop urban farms come in
various forms, ranging from smaller scale community-based farming
activity and edible gardens, to larger-scale, highly intensive farming
activities conducted on a commercial basis. </span>

<a
href="#MechanicalandElectricalSpacesEnclosedbyChainLinkFenceonCarParkFloors"
class="collapsible collapsed" data-toggle="collapse"></a>

Mechanical and Electrical Spaces Enclosed by Chain Link Fence on Car
Park Floors

M&E spaces enclosed by chain-link fencing or low parapet wall on common
car park floors (eg. above basements) are excluded from GFA.

<a
href="#RoofCoversforthescreeningofMechanicalandElectricalServiceEquipment"
class="collapsible collapsed" data-toggle="collapse"></a>

Roof Covers for the screening of Mechanical and Electrical Service
Equipment

Non load bearing roof covers meant to
<span style="color: windowtext;">screen off rooftop services (e.g. M&E
and other service equipment) may be excluded from GFA.</span>

 <https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/GFA/GFA-50B-GFA-exemption-for-Roof-covers_final.jpg> 

*Roof Covers for M&E Services*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Last updated on 26** Jul 2023****
