### Strata Subdivision

<span style="text-align: justify;"><span style="color: #333333;">Areas
where strata subdivision of the commercial component of commercial and
mixed-use developments may not be allowed are as follows</span>:</span>

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td style="background-color: #f2f2f2"><strong>Plan</strong></td>
<td style="background-color: #f2f2f2"><strong>Location</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>1-1</td>
<td><a
href="https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Commercial/Orchard_Appendix-1-1.pdf"
target="_blank">Along Orchard Road, Tanglin Road and Scotts Road
(Orchard Road corridor)</a></td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td>1-2</td>
<td><a
href="https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Commercial/CBD_Appendix-1-2.pdf"
target="_blank">Along Shenton Way, Robinson Road, Anson Road, Raffles
Quay, facing Raffles Place Park, and along the Singapore River (CBD
corridor)</a></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td>1-3</td>
<td><a
href="https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Commercial/Civic-District_Appendix-1-3.pdf"
target="_blank">In close proximity to key landmarks of national
significance</a></td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

  

<span style="text-align: justify; color: #333333;">URA may also impose
strata subdivision restrictions on other sites of strategic importance
in Central Area and Outside Central Area based on the context and
significance of each site.</span>

<span style="text-align: justify; color: #333333;">Restrictions on
strata subdivision will also be imposed on developments that are
approved under the CBD Incentive Scheme or Strategic Development
Incentive (SDI) Scheme.</span>

<span style="color: #333333;">As the intention of the guidelines is to
limit the number of strata lots within a development to avoid fragmented
ownership, strata subdivision for the purpose of delineating boundaries
between different uses within mixed-use developments will continue to be
permitted. For example, office and retail uses within a development can
each form a strata lot.</span>

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last updated on 15 March 2022*

### 
