### Parking

LTA prescribes the parking provision standards and requirements for
motor vehicles and bicycles. The requirements are usually based on the
quantum of the gross floor area or the number of units of the
development uses.

### 

<a href="#Car-Parking" class="collapsible collapsed"
data-toggle="collapse"></a>

Car and Motor-Cycle Parking

Under LTA’s Range-based Parking Provision Standards (RPPS), developments
are subject to car and motor-cycle<sup>1</sup> parking provision
requirements.

Unless explicitly approved as private parking lots in the approved
plans, all car and motor-cycle parking lots shall be treated as common
property.

<sup>1</sup> Motor-cycle parking provision is mandatory in all
non-residential developments.

<a href="#Range-Based" class="collapsible collapsed"
data-parent="#Car-Parking1" data-toggle="collapse"></a>

#### Range-based Parking Provision Standards (RPPS)

The RPPS allows developments to provide any level of car and motor-cycle
parking provision within a specified range, defined by a lower bound and
an upper bound – see figure below. The range varies according to
location zones and land uses. Details may be found in <a
href="https://www.lta.gov.sg/content/ltagov/en/industry_innovations/industry_matters/development_construction_resources/vehicle_parking/requirements_for_vehicle_parking_proposals.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">LTA’s Code of Practice for
Vehicle Parking Provision in Developments</a>.

<https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Industrial/Range_Based_Car_Parking_Standard.jpg?h=100%25&w=100%25>

*Range-based Parking Provision Standards*

New S&R developments shall be subject to a process of waiver evaluation
by LTA, if one wishes to provide surplus car and motor-cycle parking
lots, ie parking provision above the upper bound based on the new RPPS.

<a href="#Bicycle-Parking" class="collapsible collapsed"
data-toggle="collapse"></a>

Bicycle Parking

To promote a car-lite society, S&R developments may be required to
provide bicycle parking facilities within the developments. Refer to
LTA’s Code of Practice for Vehicle Parking Provision in Developments <a
href="https://www.lta.gov.sg/content/ltagov/en/industry_innovations/industry_matters/development_construction_resources/vehicle_parking/requirements_for_vehicle_parking_proposals.html"
rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">here</a> for the list of
requirements.

Unless explicitly approved as private parking lots in the approved
plans, all bicycle parking lots shall be treated as common property.

Bicycle parking lots provided according to LTA’s new standards are
exempted from GFA computation. Surplus provision of bicycle parking lots
may be exempted from GFA computation depending on merits and context of
the development.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last updated on 31 August 2023*
