### Gross Plot Ratio

The Gross Plot Ratio (GPR) of a B2 development is guided by the GPR
specified in the Master Plan (MP). This upper bound GPR may not always
be achievable because of site limitations like plot size, shape of the
plot, site topography or ground conditions, building setbacks, building
height or technical requirements of other authorities that may affect
the site.

The area of the land required to be set aside for Drainage
Reserve<sup>1</sup> (DR) and/or Road Reserve<sup>2</sup> (RR) to be
vested in the State may be included in the site area to compute the
gross floor area (GFA) for a GPR – see figure below.

<sup>1</sup> **Drainage Reserve**: An area safeguarded for purposes of
building or widening a public drain.

<sup>2</sup> **Road Reserve**: The plot of land to be vested in the
State as required under the Street Works Act. It is demarcated by the
line of Road Reserve in the Road Line Plan and the site boundary.

<https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Flats-Condominiums/F01_Gross_Plot_Ratio.jpg?h=100%25&w=100%25>

*GPR for sites where vesting is required*

### 

<a href="#B2-White" class="collapsible collapsed"
data-toggle="collapse"></a>

B2-White

B2 sites located next to MRT stations may be zoned B2-W. The white
component is to provide flexibility for industrial companies in such
locations to accommodate synergistic White uses.

For such B2-W sites, a minimum GPR shall be achieved for the permissible
B2 uses first. This minimum GPR for B2 uses is indicated in the square
brackets on the Master Plan.

For example, in the map below, the site next to Joo Koon MRT Station is
zoned “**2.5 \[B-2.0\] W**”. A B2-W site would have an overall allowable
GPR of 2.5. A minimum GPR of 2.0 must be achieved and used for
industrial purposes before the remaining GPR 0.5 may be unlocked for
White uses.

Refer to the section on <a
href="https://www.ura.gov.sg/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-Control/Non-Residential/B2/Allowable-Uses"
target="_blank">Allowable Uses</a> for the list of allowable uses within
the White component.

<https://www.ura.gov.sg/-/media/Corporate/Guidelines/Development-control/Industrial/B2-White-Site.jpg?h=100%25&w=100%25>

*B2-White site located next to Joo Koon MRT Station*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*Last updated on 5 July 2019*
